pages: update next.js framework guide (#12506)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-nextjs-site.md

This guide will instruct you how to deploy a full-stack Next.js project which uses the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge).

## Use the create-cloudflare CLI (C3)

The fastest way to create a new Next.js site and deploy it to Cloudflare is open up your terminal and run:

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest my-next-app -- --framework=next
```

`create-cloudflare` will:

-  install necessary dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` adapter
- ask you a series of setup questions
- allow you to setup a new git repo
- allow you to deploy your new project

After creating your project, a new `my-next-app` directory will be generated using the official default template, and will be fully compatible with Cloudflare.

Change to this directory to continue development.

```sh
$ cd my-next-app
```

If you chose to deploy, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`, and you can access it almost immediately.

## Manually configure and deploy your project

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> The following steps are only applicable to projects that have not been created and deployed via create-cloudflare.

Reviewer: I find the wording quite confusing as there aren't any "steps" here 😕

{{</Aside>}}

> If you already have a Next.js project or wish to manually create and deploy one, we recommend that you use `@cloudflare/next-on-pages`. Its [README](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/packages/next-on-pages#cloudflarenext-on-pages) contains setup instructions and additional information to help you develop and deploy your project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a Next.js project or wish to manually create and deploy one without using c3, we recommend that you use `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and refer to its [README](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/packages/next-on-pages#cloudflarenext-on-pages) for instructions and additional information to help you develop and deploy your project. 
```

With these changes we could get read of the note above, couldn't we?

Author: I removed that note and updated this section.

## Preview your site

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Next.js site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

> ## Use bindings in your Next.js application

Reviewer: C3 now already does some setup for the user: https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/pull/4688

So maybe it'd be valuable to mention that here?

Author: I've added a note about  the default `env.d.ts`.

For example to work with a KV binding locally, you need to open `next.config.js` and add:

```js
// we only need to use the utility during development so we can check NODE_ENV
// (note: this check is recommended but completely optional)
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === "development") {
  // import the utility from the next-dev submodule
  const { setupDevBindings } = require("@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev");
 
  // call the utility with the bindings you want to have access to
  setupDevBindings({
    bindings: {
      MY_KV: {
        type: "kv",
        id: "MY_KV",
      },
    },
  });
}
```

You should then be able to access the binding in your code via `process.env` like this:

```js
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export const runtime = 'edge'

export async function GET(request: NextRequest) {
  // this is the KV binding you defined in next.config.js
  const myKv = process.env.MY_KV;

  // get a value from the namespace
  const kvValue = await myKv.get(`kvTest`) || false;

  return new Response(`The value of kvTest in MY_KV is: ${kvValue}`)
}
```

> ### Access bindings remotely

Reviewer: Access bindings remotely makes me think of running wrangler locally and getting access to the bindings in production 🤔 

wouldn't it be clearer to have something like:
```suggestion
### Access bindings in the deployed application
```
or something along these lines?

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org) is an open-source React framework for creating websites and applications. In this guide, you will create a new Next.js application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

This guide will instruct you how to deploy a full-stack Next.js project which uses the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge).

> ## Use the create-cloudflare CLI (C3)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use the `create-cloudflare` CLI (C3)
```

The fastest way to create a new Next.js site and deploy it to Cloudflare is open up your terminal and run:

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest my-next-app -- --framework=next
```

`create-cloudflare` will:

-  install necessary dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` adapter
- ask you a series of setup questions
- allow you to setup a new git repo
- allow you to deploy your new project

After creating your project, a new `my-next-app` directory will be generated using the official default template, and will be fully compatible with Cloudflare.

Change to this directory to continue development.

```sh
$ cd my-next-app
```

If you chose to deploy, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`, and you can access it almost immediately.

## Manually configure and deploy your project

> If you already have a Next.js project or wish to manually create and deploy one without using c3, we recommend that you use `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and refer to its [README](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/packages/next-on-pages#cloudflarenext-on-pages) for instructions and additional information to help you develop and deploy your project. 

Author: We want C3 to be the first option users are presented with, since it sets everything up for them. 

Users have to deploy before they can preview.

## Preview your site

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Next.js site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

## Use bindings in your Next.js application

A [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/kv/reference/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](/d1/).

> Cloudflare bindings must be set up for local and remote development.

Reviewer 2: Can we link a guide or page that we can link here in [local and remote development.]?

### Set up local bindings

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Projects created with create-cloudflare have local bindings set up by default.

Reviewer 2: 1) Are they 'local bindings' or are they bindings that are set up for local use? Difference being, if they are the former, then are they bindings you only use locally? 

2) In what file are they set up by default? We should state this.

{{</Aside>}}

> To set up bindings for use in local development, you will use the `setupDevBindings` function provided by [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev`](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/internal-packages/next-dev). This function allows you to specify bindings that work locally, and are accessed the same way remote bindings are.

Reviewer 2: The sentence before this makes it sound like the bindings are already set up but this sentence says 'to set up...'. Are the bindings already set up or do you need to set them up? Clarity needed here.

For example to work with a KV binding locally, you need to open `next.config.js` and add:

```js
// we only need to use the utility during development so we can check NODE_ENV
// (note: this check is recommended but completely optional)
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === "development") {
  // import the utility from the next-dev submodule
  const { setupDevBindings } = require("@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev");
 
  // call the utility with the bindings you want to have access to
  setupDevBindings({
    bindings: {
      MY_KV: {

>         type: "kv",
>         id: "MY_KV",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        type: "kv",
        id: "MY_KV",
```
We should explain what these two keys are. "MY_KV" doesn't make it clear that this is an ID you need to pull from your KV.

And does 'type' here replace 'binding'? Wrangler config that I am familair with looks different: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/configuration/#kv-namespaces

      },
    },
  });
}
```

> You should then be able to access the binding in your code via `process.env` like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should then be able to access the ___ binding in your code via `process.env` like this:
```
Name the example binding for user clarity.

```js
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export const runtime = 'edge'

export async function GET(request: NextRequest) {
  // this is the KV binding you defined in next.config.js
  const myKv = process.env.MY_KV;

  // get a value from the namespace
  const kvValue = await myKv.get(`kvTest`) || false;

  return new Response(`The value of kvTest in MY_KV is: ${kvValue}`)
}
```

### Access bindings in the deployed application

To access bindings in your deployed application, you'll first need to [configure](/workers/configuration/bindings/) any necessary bindings and connect them to your project via your project's settings page in the Cloudflare Dashboard.

> Then, the binding can be accessed directly from `process.env`:

Reviewer 2: This code block uses the same example KV binding as in the previous section. Let's state explicitly for the user that this is what the following example is doing.

```typescript
---
filename: app/api/hello/route.ts
highlight: [4]
---
// ...

export async function GET(request: Request) {
  const myKv = process.env.MY_KV;

  return new Response(
    // ...
  );
};
```

### Use bindings in Typescript

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Projects created with create-cloudflare have a default `env.d.ts` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Projects created with `create-cloudflare` (C3) have a default `env.d.ts` file.
```
What directory does this file live? Is it auto generated in the first step of this guide?

{{</Aside>}}

> In order to get proper type support, you'll need to create a new `env.d.ts` file in your project and declare a [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get proper type support, create a new `env.d.ts` file in your project and declare a [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/).
```

Reviewer 2: Previous sentence said this file was default but now we are asking the user to create one.

> The following is an example of adding a `KVNamespace` binding:

Reviewer 2: Is `KVnamespace` the name of this binding? Or is MY_KV the name of this binding?

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org) is an open-source React framework for creating websites and applications. In this guide, you will create a new Next.js application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

This guide will instruct you how to deploy a full-stack Next.js project which uses the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge).

## Create a new project using the `create-cloudflare` CLI (C3)

To create a new Next.js site, open up your terminal and run:

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest my-next-app -- --framework=next
```

`create-cloudflare` will:

- install necessary dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` adapter
- ask you a series of setup questions
- allow you to setup a new git repo
- allow you to deploy your new project

> After creating your project, a new `my-next-app` directory will be generated using the official default template, and will be fully compatible with Cloudflare.

Reviewer: I find this sentence a bit ambiguous, I think it would be nice to clarify that there is no "cloudflare official Next.js template" but that we take what we get from the next cli and tweak it for Cloudflare 🤔 
```suggestion
After creating your project, a new `my-next-app` directory will be generated using the the default Next.js template, tweaked to be fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages.
```

Change to this directory to continue development.

```sh
$ cd my-next-app
```

If you chose to deploy, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`, and you can access it almost immediately.

## Configure and deploy a project without C3

If you already have a Next.js project or wish to manually create and deploy one without using c3, we recommend that you use `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and refer to its [README](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/packages/next-on-pages#cloudflarenext-on-pages) for instructions and additional information to help you develop and deploy your project. 

> ## Preview your site

Reviewer: Something is missing in this whole section, it only applies if you use the git Pages integration (which is also kind of incompatible with C3) I do believe we need to mention that this only applies to apps which use the git integration (and maybe also mention the incompatibility with C3?)

Author: I added "(git connected)" to the heading. The line "Every time you commit new code to your git repository" is also in the section. Is that enough?

Reviewer: I don't think it's really enough and that we should maybe be as clear as possible here 😕 

The problem is that you can have C3 and also have a git repository so the "Every time you commit new code to your git repository" can also apply (wrongly) to that scenario no? (like someone wrongly thinking that C3 installs a git hook or something for auto deployments on push?)

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.

> Every time you commit new code to your Next.js site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time you commit new code to your git repository, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.
```

Author: Updated

## Use bindings in your Next.js application

A [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/kv/reference/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](/d1/).

> Cloudflare bindings must be set up for local and remote development.

Reviewer: can't "must be set up" give the wrong impression to people here and make them think that they do need to set up bindings even if they don't plan on using them? 🤔

Author: I've reworded this.

### Set up bindings for local development

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Projects created with create-cloudflare have local bindings set up by default.

{{</Aside>}}

To set up bindings for use in local development, you will use the `setupDevBindings` function provided by [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev`](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/internal-packages/next-dev). This function allows you to specify bindings that work locally, and are accessed the same way remote bindings are.

For example to work with a KV binding locally, you need to open `next.config.js` and add:

```js

> // we only need to use the utility during development so we can check NODE_ENV

Reviewer: In this code snipper we're missing the file name and highlights 🙂

Author: I added the filename and highlight.

### Set up bindings for local development

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Projects created with create-cloudflare have local bindings set up by default.

{{</Aside>}}

To set up bindings for use in local development, you will use the `setupDevBindings` function provided by [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev`](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/internal-packages/next-dev). This function allows you to specify bindings that work locally, and are accessed the same way remote bindings are.

For example to work with a KV binding locally, you need to open `next.config.js` and add:

```js
// we only need to use the utility during development so we can check NODE_ENV
// (note: this check is recommended but completely optional)
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === "development") {
  // import the utility from the next-dev submodule
  const { setupDevBindings } = require("@cloudflare/next-on-pages/next-dev");

  // call the utility with the bindings you want to have access to
  setupDevBindings({
    bindings: {
      MY_KV: {
        type: "kv",
        id: "MY_KV",
      },
    },
  });
}
```

### Set up bindings for a deployed application

> In orer to access bindings in a deployed application, you will need to [configure](/pages/functions/bindings/) any necessary bindings and connect them to your project via your project's settings page in the Cloudflare Dashboard.

Reviewer: what about including a deep link here?
(`https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/pages/view/:pages-project/settings/`)

Author: This link only sends me to the overview page. I'm guessing because I don't have a `:pages-project` set. How can we know what that value might be?

Reviewer: in the overview page, don't you see the `select a project` banner?
![Screenshot 2024-01-23 at 23 10 45](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/assets/61631103/74d3066a-2d3d-40a7-b0c5-cb4873bb29d7)

If you select one then you get redirected to that project's settings page

But yeah if this is not too clear maybe we should avoid it not to confuse people?

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org) is an open-source React framework for creating websites and applications. In this guide, you will create a new Next.js application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

This guide will instruct you how to deploy a full-stack Next.js project which uses the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge).

## Create a new project using the `create-cloudflare` CLI (C3)

To create a new Next.js site, open up your terminal and run:

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest my-next-app -- --framework=next
```

`create-cloudflare` will:

- install necessary dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` adapter
- ask you a series of setup questions

> - allow you to setup a new git repo

Reviewer 2: C3 doesn't allow you to set up a new Git repo.

{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}

## Use the create-cloudflare CLI (C3)

The fastest way to create a new Next.js site and deploy it to Cloudflare is open up your terminal and run:

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest my-next-app -- --framework=next
```

`create-cloudflare` will:

-  install necessary dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` adapter
- ask you a series of setup questions
- allow you to setup a new git repo
- allow you to deploy your new project

After creating your project, a new `my-next-app` directory will be generated using the official default template, and will be fully compatible with Cloudflare. 

Change to this directory to continue development.

```sh
$ cd my-next-app
```

If you chose to deploy, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`, and you can access it almost immediately.

## Manually configure and deploy your project

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> The following steps are only applicable to projects that have not been created and deployd via create-cloudflare.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following steps are only applicable to projects that have not been created and deployed via create-cloudflare.
```

{{</Aside>}}

To begin, you'll create a new project with `create-next-app`:

```sh
$ npx create-next-app
```

> From within the project directory, you'll also need to create a new repo for your project.

Reviewer 3: you'll also need to add the next-on-pages package and update next.config.js

Reviewer 3: I suggest you drop this and instead simply point to https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/tree/main/packages/next-on-pages#cloudflarenext-on-pages which documents the whole process of onboarding existing apps.

Author: I've added the link to that README in a small section.

Create a new GitHub repository by visiting [repo.new](https://repo.new). After creating a new repository, prepare and push your local application to GitHub by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
git remote add origin https://github.com/<GH_USERNAME>/<REPOSITORY_NAME>
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

> ## Consider if you need the Edge Runtime

Reviewer 3: I don't believe we want this section at all. Or rather we should directly say that only edge runtime routes are supported.

Author: I've removed this section, and left a part at the top of the docs that says this page is for `a full-stack Next.js project which uses the Edge Runtime`

The Edge Runtime allows applications to use server-side features such as [Edge API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), server-side rendering (SSR) pages with [`getServerSideProps()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/api-reference/functions/get-server-side-props), [Server Components](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started/react-essentials#server-components), and [Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware).

For more information about the Edge Runtime, refer to [the official Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/edge-and-nodejs-runtimes) which explains the differences between the Edge Runtime and traditional Node.js servers, or [read the Cloudflare announcement blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/next-on-pages).

## Use the Edge Runtime

### Configure the application to use the Edge Runtime

> The default template uses traditional Node.js-powered routes that are not supported on Cloudflare Pages. To run your application, you need to opt into the Edge Runtime for any routes that have server-side functionality (for example, API routes or pages that use `getServerSideProps`). To do this, you need to export a `runtime` [route segment config](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#runtime) option from each route's file.

Reviewer 3: again, this is either done by C3 automatically or is part of next-on-pages instructions, so I'd drop it from here.

Author: I've removed this from the doc.

For more examples of this and for Next.js versions prior to v13.3.1, refer to [`@cloudflare/next-on-pages` examples](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/blob/main/packages/next-on-pages/docs/examples.md). Additionally, ensure that your application is not using any [unsupported APIs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge#unsupported-apis) or [features](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/blob/main/packages/next-on-pages/docs/supported.md).

### Deploy via the Cloudflare dashboard

> To deploy your application to Cloudflare Pages via the Cloudflare Dashboard, you need to install the `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` package into your project. This library builds your Next.js project in a format that can be deployed to Pages, and handles the runtime logic for your application.

Reviewer 3: This repeats what has already been done above. Remove the whole section?

Author: Removed.

export {};
```

## Recommended development workflow

When developing a `next-on-pages` application, this is the development workflow that we recommend:

- **Develop using the standard Next.js dev server**\

>   In order to have a very fast and polished dev experience the standard dev server provided by Next.js is the best available option. So use it to quickly make changes and iterate over them, while still having access to your Cloudflare bindings thanks to the
>   `next-dev` submodule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In order to have a very fast and polished dev experience the standard dev server provided by Next.js is the best available option. So use it to quickly make changes and iterate over them, while still having access to your Cloudflare bindings thanks to the `next-dev` submodule (as described in the [local bindings section](#set-up-local-bindings) above).
```

- **Build and preview your worker locally**\

>   In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process, build your worker by using `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and preview it locally via `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static`, this is the only way to locally make sure that every is working as you expect it to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process, build your worker by using `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and preview it locally via `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static --compatibility-flag=nodejs_compat`, this is the only way to locally make sure that everything is working as you expect it to.
```

export {};
```

## Recommended development workflow

> When developing a `next-on-pages` application, this is the development workflow that we recommend:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When developing a `next-on-pages` application, this is the development workflow that Cloudflare recommends:
```

> - **Develop using the standard Next.js dev server**\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Develop using the standard Next.js dev server
```

>   In order to have a very fast and polished dev experience the standard dev server provided by Next.js is the best available option. So use it to quickly make changes and iterate over them, while still having access to your Cloudflare bindings thanks to the `next-dev` submodule (as described in the [local bindings section](#set-up-local-bindings) above).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The [standard development server provided by Next.js]() is the best available option for a fast and polished development experience. The `next-dev` submodule (as described in the [local bindings section](#set-up-local-bindings) above makes it possible to use Next.js' standard development server while still having access to your Cloudflare bindings.
```
Let's link to what we are talking about here: [standard development server provided by Next.js](). This seems like something Next.js provides that we haven't explained in this doc.

- **Build and preview your worker locally**\

>   In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process you'll want to build your worker and preview it locally. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process you'll want to build your worker and preview it locally using Cloudflare's `workerd` JavaScript runtime. 
```

> - **Build and preview your worker locally**\
>   In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process you'll want to build your worker and preview it locally using Cloudflare's `workerd` JavaScript runtime. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Build and preview your worker locally

To make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process you'll want to build your worker and preview it locally using Cloudflare's `workerd` JavaScript runtime. 
```
As a reader, I'm a bit lost here. How do Workers relate to this guide? This subtitle says "Worker", is that intentional? Also, this is a long run-on sentence, can we revise this part?

  
  If you've created your project with C3, you can do this by running `npm run pages:build && npm run pages:dev`. 
  
  If you've created your project manually, you'll need to run `npx @cloudflare/next-on-pages --watch` and preview it by running `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static --compatibility-flag=nodejs_compat`. 
  

>   By doing this, you can run your site locally to make sure everything is working as you expect it to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  By doing this, you can run your app locally to make sure everything is working as you expect it to.
```

>   If you've created your project with C3, you can do this by running `npm run pages:build && npm run pages:dev`. 
>   
>   If you've created your project manually, you'll need to run `npx @cloudflare/next-on-pages --watch` and preview it by running `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static --compatibility-flag=nodejs_compat`. 
>   
>   By doing this, you can run your app locally to make sure everything is working as you expect it to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have created your project with C3, you can do this by running `npm run pages:build && npm run pages:dev`. 
  
If you have created your project manually, you will need to run `npx @cloudflare/next-on-pages --watch` and preview it by running `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static --compatibility-flag=nodejs_compat`. 
  
By doing this, you can run your application locally to make sure everything is working as you expect it to.
```
1) What is the connection between the previous sentence about Workers and this section about Pages which seems to be about running Pages builds?
2) "By doing this" -> can we change "this" to describing what the proper action the user is taking?

> - **Deploy your app and iterate**\
>   Once you've previewed your application locally then you can deploy it to Cloudflare Pages (both via direct uploads or git integration) and iterate over the process to make new changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy your application and iterate

After you have previewed your application locally, you can deploy it to Cloudflare Pages (both via Direct Uploads or Git integration) and iterate over the process to make new changes.
```
Link to Direct Upload docs, it is the first time they are being mentioned on this page.

{{</Aside>}}

> ## Deploy via a static export

Reviewer 3: This whole section talks about SSG mode of Next which is how Pages originally supported Next, we updated the doc above to support the normal fullstack mode, so I suggest you drop this section completely.

- **Develop using the standard Next.js dev server**\
  In order to have a very fast and polished dev experience the standard dev server provided by Next.js is the best available option. So use it to quickly make changes and iterate over them, while still having access to your Cloudflare bindings thanks to the `next-dev` submodule (as described in the [local bindings section](#set-up-local-bindings) above).
- **Build and preview your worker locally**\

>   In order to make sure that your application is being built in a manner that is fully compatible with Cloudflare Pages, before deploying it, or whenever you're comfortable checking the correctness of the application during your development process, build your worker by using `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` and preview it locally via `wrangler pages dev .vercel/output/static --compatibility-flag=nodejs_compat`, this is the only way to locally make sure that everything is working as you expect it to.

Reviewer 3: > this is the only way to locally make sure that everything is working as you expect it to.

This sounds a bit unnecessarily scary. Please consider rephrasing with something like "Running your application with `wrangler pages dev` has higher edit & refresh latency, but it more faithfully matches the deployed production environment, allowing you to test and verify your application locally and catch any potential compatibility issues before you deploy."

Author: I actually updated that line to be:

`By doing this, you can run your site locally to make sure everything is working as you expect it to.`

Reviewer 3: oh.. I see. this diff is outdated. please disregard the comment above.

$ cd my-app
```

### Deploy your application to Cloudflare Pages

> To deploy your site to Pages:

Reviewer 3: This section is still focused on SSG deployments. I suggest we simplify it and say that you can either deploy the app by running `wrangler pages:deploy` or by connecting the git repository to our CI/CD via the Cloudflare Dash.

A [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/kv/reference/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](/d1/).

> There are two ways to interact with Cloudflare bindings: locally and remotely.

Reviewer 3: There is just one way to access the bindings and that's via process.env as documented below. There are two ways to set up bindings, one way for local development and one way for production deployment. Could you please update this section?

Author: I've rewritten this section with your suggestions. Thanks!
